Now that I've implemented the JpaItemWriter, let's test it.
We're going to again use the existing BatchJobConfigurationTest class.
To do this, I'll start by creating a PatientEntity,
passing test data into the constructor, then I'll create a StepExecution,
similar to what I did in the ItemReader test case,
I'll execute the writer in the scope of a step,
and then finally,
I'll assert that I could retrieve the PatientRecord from the database.
To do this, I'm going to need to create a patientRepository class in the code.
There will also need to be a change to the unit
test to support the database call.
Let's implement the unit test now.
I'm going to demonstrate the necessary changes for testing the JPAItemWriter.
Note that I'll be following Demo 21 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
With the ItemWriter implementation in place, I want to now unit test the code.
To verify that the data saved,
I'm also going to implement a Repository class for accessing patient data.
In the package com.
Pluralsight.
springbatch.
patientbatchloader.
repository, we're going to create a new interface.
I'm going to name it PatientRepository,
and I'm going to select that it's an interface.
First, I need to update the interface declaration.
The Repository annotation signifies to Spring that this is a
Repository component to be managed as a bean.
The interface extends the JpaRepository class to support data access.
I'll only be using the out of the box queries for testing,
so no further changes are needed.
Now let's open up the test class BatchJobConfigurationTest.
To start with,
I want to autowire the Writer and the Repository beans that I just created.
Let's drop those in.
Now that I've autowired the Writer and Repository, I can drop in the test case.
I'm going to scroll to the bottom, then I'll drop in the test case.
Here we see that the test case will first create a PatientEntity
using the test data passed for construction.
Then, within the stop of a step, the writer will be executed against the data.
This should persist the PatientRecord to the database.
Finally, I'll assert that through the new patientRepository interface,
I can retrieve the PatientRecord back from the database.
If I run the testcase now, it's going to fail.
The reason it fails is because I'm trying to use the
JpaItemWriter without a transaction.
Let's fix this.
I'm going to scroll back to the top of the class,
and I'm going to add the Transactional annotation.
Along with this annotation,
I also need to update the list of TestExecutionListeners.
I'm going to replace that annotation now.
I've now added a listener for transactional tests, and I can execute the test.
Let's scroll back down.
I'm going to run the test, and we see here that the test has passed.
Let me minimize the console.
So once again,
the assertion we were making was that the call to the
patientRepository would find a record, which it did,
so this was successful. That completes the demo for unit testing the ItemWriter.